There is no other organization
that compares to Jehovah’s organization.
Everything the organization provides
and helps with is free of charge.
But Jehovah invites all of us to give to him
or contribute our material resources
according to what we personally decide.
Now, why is this “giving” a matter of faith?
Could it be that we hold back because
(1) we might fear that if we are generous,
we might not have enough for our own needs?
To think this way is understandable.
Life is unpredictable, and nobody knows
what the future holds and what
our material needs might be tomorrow.
Or could it be that we hold back because
(2) we feel that our personal contribution
is so small and, therefore, insignificant?
Maybe we have very little materially
because we live in a poor country
or we struggle to cover
our expenses for other reasons.
So we see that our giving
really depends on how
we connect this with Jehovah.
Our view of Jehovah
and our friendship with Jehovah
needs to influence our actions,
and this requires faith.
Therefore, let us briefly look
at these two concerns
that might impact our generosity
and how faith can help us.
Now, the first concern was the uncertainty
of our own future needs.
Please, let us open our Bible
to 1 Corinthians chapter 16.
Here in our theme scripture,
the apostle Paul provides
a principle to follow
when we consider donations.
This is 1 Corinthians 16,
and we’ll read verse 2:
“On the first day of every week,
“each of you should set something aside
according to his own means,
so that collections
will not take place when I arrive.”
So the apostle Paul encouraged Christians
to plan ahead to give.
In other words, Paul wanted them
to consider their circumstances
and to decide
on a certain contribution amount.
Paul was convinced
that this would not result
in their lacking material necessities.
He himself had experienced
the help from Jehovah,
and he knew that God would care for them.
Generous giving would further allow Jehovah
to care for them in a generous way.
Do we now see how planning ahead
is an expression of our faith?
When we do this, we are putting Jehovah
to the test in a good way.
We want to experience how it feels
when Jehovah
sees us setting the right priorities
and, in turn, becomes our Protector
and our Rewarder.
Dear brothers and sisters,
you are displaying this kind of faith.
Many of you set something aside
so that you can contribute
when you come to the Kingdom Hall.
Others consider their expenses
and their financial means,
and they decide
to regularly donate electronically.
Even when circumstances have not allowed you
to donate the way you have done in the past,
you still find a way
to give your contribution to Jehovah.
Jehovah promised
to care for our needs.
Do we really believe that?
If we do, our faith
will help us to give generously.
There was a second concern that might
hold us back from giving generously.
We might consider our circumstances and feel
that the contribution we can make is so small
that it makes no difference.
Do you still have 1 Corinthians 16:2 open?
What did we read there?
Let us read it again, 1 Corinthians 16:2:
“On the first day of every week,
“each of you should set something aside
according to his own means.”
Did you notice that Paul
did not specify a certain minimum amount?
And later, he mentioned
the Macedonian Christians
—they were in deep poverty.
Yet, they begged for the privilege of giving.
They were happy to give
even beyond their means
because they were giving to Jehovah.
Being poor meant
that they individually could not give much,
and yet they understood
that giving materially
is an expression of our worship.
Many of you brothers and sisters
are like those in Macedonia
—you have very little.
And yet, we see your faith
by your contributing generously
according to your circumstances.
No matter how small the amount might be,
you imitate our generous God, Jehovah.
And you experience what
one sister described in a letter.
She wrote,
“All these years I’ve been unable to give
but small amounts of money
at the Kingdom Hall.”
Yet she continued,
“Jehovah God has given me back
much more than I have given.”
Even our young children can learn
to set something aside and give to Jehovah.
Here at Warwick,
we occasionally receive notes and letters
from these young ones
who want to give to Jehovah,
and they tell us how they appreciate
what the organization is doing,
especially the videos.
This really touches our hearts,
and we can only imagine
how happy it must make Jehovah.
Jehovah loves us for giving
the best that we have.
He values even our small contributions.
Even small donations do make a difference
and are noticed by Jehovah.
He sees our faith in action.
In the following video, note what moved
one couple to greater acts of generosity.
When a disaster struck
in the north of the country,
we immediately answered the call for help.
Seeing our brothers and sisters
in need was heartbreaking.
But what really touched our heart
was the spirit
of the local brothers and sisters.
They were like the Macedonians.
They didn’t have much,
but they gave generously from the heart.
When we got home,
Madeline and I resolved
to show the same kind of spirit.
First, our appreciation led us
to review our contribution
to the worldwide work.
I’ve come up with this figure.
Is this right?
Yeah.
Let’s just thank Jehovah.
We looked for ways to be generous
to those around us.
We discovered that we had
the means to give more,
so we didn’t hold back.
And then,
our congregation was invited to help
with a special preaching campaign.
. . . reach as many
as possible with the good news.
Do you think we could do a bit more?
Could we push ourselves a bit further?
I’d really like to.
It was within our power to help,
and that’s exactly what we did!
I’m bringing too much?
No, of course not.
Did you notice what role
faith played in this couple’s giving?
For example,
they put their faith in Jehovah’s promise
to care for them in times of need,
and so they sat down
and reconsidered
their ability to generously give.
Prayerfully, they decided
on their contribution.
In line with our theme,
they “set something aside.”
Additionally,
they shared materially
with their brothers and sisters
—food items, and a nice meal.
They realized what a blessing it is
to be used by Jehovah
in caring for others.
Brothers and sisters,
we live in the most exciting time in history
with never-to-be-repeated opportunities
to demonstrate our faith.
The apostle Paul compared this
with ‘a large door
that opened up.’
Please, think for a moment.
Has a door to activity opened for you
to learn a new language?
Or does it look more like the door leads you
to move to where the need is greater?
Did this symposium remind you
of the door that is open
for you to receive training
at the School for Kingdom Evangelizers?
Or did it direct you to the door
for assisting
with a theocratic building project?
And maybe this concluding part
has reminded all of us
of our privilege of generously supporting
the Kingdom work
by making donations, even if they are small.
What door is open to you
so that you are able to expand your ministry?
Don’t feel bad if you hesitate to enter
—this is normal.
And yet, please,
do not delay entering unnecessarily.
Don’t think you can always reach out later.
For we all do not know
what our life will be like tomorrow.
In other words,
the door to wonderful blessings
that is open today might be closed tomorrow.
So be courageous,
and enter the door to activity in faith.
And like many of your brothers and sisters
who have already
made these steps in the past,
you will have no regrets.
Let us all demonstrate our faith
by doing all that we can
for our Friend and God, Jehovah,
and we will enjoy a rich life now,
and we’ll be blessed
with unending life in the future.